README.md, before:

# 🚀 Startup Blueprint

## Kill Monthly Fees. Start Your Business for $150

**Zero subscriptions. Zero recurring charges. Just a defined process that works.**

Everyone wants you to pay a monthly fee—hosting providers, email services, project management tools, AI platforms. This blueprint shows you how to build a professional, AI-native business with **$0/month recurring costs**.

> **🎯 For:** Founders who are tired of SaaS fatigue and want to own their infrastructure

---

## 💰 The Complete Cost Breakdown

### One-Time Costs (Total: $150-265)

| Item                  | Cost      | Why?                                             |
| --------------------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| **LLC Registration**  | $50-125   | Government fee (required by law)                 |
| **Domain (10 years)** | ~$100-140 | Avoid $500 recovery fees if you forget to renew  |
| **Everything Else**   | $0        | GitHub, Cloudflare, Gmail, Perplexity (all free) |

### Ongoing Costs: ~$0.02/month

- **AI Usage (optional):** OpenRouter API (~$0.01-0.02/month for automation)
- **CrewAI Reviews:** <$0.01 per PR with free models
- **Hosting:** $0 (Cloudflare Pages free tier)
- **Email:** $0 (Gmail forwarding)
- **Repository:** $0 (GitHub private repos free)
- **CI/CD:** $0 (GitHub Actions free tier)
- **DNS:** $0 (Cloudflare DNS free)
- **Banking:** $0/month (Fidelity business stock account)
- **Payment Processing:** Pay-per-transaction only (Helcim interchange-plus)

**Compare this to typical SaaS costs: $247/month = $2,964/year** 💸

---

## 🚫 What We're Eliminating

### Traditional SaaS Stack (What We DON'T Pay)

- ❌ $29/mo website hosting (we use Cloudflare Pages)
- ❌ $49/mo email service (we use Gmail forwarding)
- ❌ $99/mo project management (we use GitHub Projects)
- ❌ $20/mo AI tools (we use free tiers + pay-per-use)
- ❌ $15/mo analytics (we use Cloudflare Analytics)
- ❌ $10/mo domain email (we use Gmail forwarding)
- ❌ $25/mo accounting/invoicing (we use Helcim included features)

**Total Eliminated: $247/month = $2,964/year**

---

## ✅ What You Get (Without Subscriptions)

### 1. Legal Foundation

- Step-by-step LLC registration guide
- EIN application (free, 15 minutes online)
- Business license requirements by state
- Operating agreement templates
- Compliance checklists

### 2. Digital Infrastructure (All Free)

- **Domain:** Cloudflare Registrar (cost-only pricing, no markup)
- **Email:** Professional `founder@your-company.com` via Gmail
- **Hosting:** Cloudflare Pages (unlimited bandwidth)
- **CDN:** Cloudflare (global edge network)
- **DNS:** Cloudflare (free, fast, secure)

### 3. AI-Native From Day One

- **Perplexity AI Spaces:** Your AI assistant knows your business context
- **OpenRouter:** Sub-penny AI inference (~$0.01-0.02/month)
- **CrewAI:** Free automated code review on every PR
- **GitHub Copilot:** Optional (but we show alternatives)

### 4. Monorepo Structure

Your entire business in one Git repository:

```
your-company/
├── docs/           # Business docs, policies, contracts
├── website/        # Your public site (auto-deploys)
├── .crewai/        # AI review agents (free)
├── .perplexity/    # AI workspace instructions
└── operations/     # Playbooks, checklists, SOPs
```

**Benefits:**

- ✅ Everything version controlled (never lose anything)
- ✅ Full-text search across all business documents
- ✅ Automatic backups (GitHub handles it)
- ✅ Collaboration via PRs (async, auditable)
- ✅ Private by default (free with GitHub)

### 5. Automated Deployment

- **GitHub Actions CI/CD:** Free tier is generous
- **Preview Deployments:** Every PR gets a live URL
- **Production Deploys:** Merge to main = automatic deploy
- **Zero Downtime:** Cloudflare handles failover

### 6. Business Banking That Invests

**We recommend [Fidelity Business Stock Account](https://www.fidelity.com/small-business/overview)**

#### Why Fidelity?

**Banking + Investment Platform:**

- **$0/month fees:** No account maintenance charges
- **FDIC-insured cash management:** Operating capital earns interest
- **Investment options:** Stocks, ETFs, crypto, precious metals
- **All-in-one:** Banking and investing in one platform
- **Institutional tools:** Real-time trading, research, portfolio analysis
- **Tax integration:** Simplified year-end accounting

**Investment Options:**

1. **Cash Management:** FDIC-insured sweep accounts with competitive rates
2. **Stocks & ETFs:** Invest profits (index funds, sector ETFs, individual stocks)
3. **Crypto:** Bitcoin, Ethereum, and more (regulated custody)
4. **Precious Metals:** Gold, silver, platinum, palladium (inflation hedge)

**Your business funds can earn returns while staying liquid for operations.**

### 7. Payment Processing & Invoicing

**We recommend [Helcim](https://www.helcim.com/)** - transparent interchange-plus pricing with **$0/month fees**

#### Current Helcim Pricing (2026)

**In-Person Payments** 📱

- **Average:** 2.55% + 8¢ per transaction
- **PIN Debit:** As low as 2.16% + 8¢
- Card-present, chip, contactless

**Online/Keyed Payments** 💻

- **Average:** 2.97% + 25¢ per transaction
- Card-not-present, e-commerce, phone orders

**ACH/Bank Transfers** 🏦

- **Rate:** 0.5% + 25¢ per transaction
- **Capped at $6** (for transactions <$25,000)
- **Direct to Fidelity:** No fee when using cash invoices

**Surcharging Option** ✨

- **You pay:** 0% for credit cards
- **Customer pays:** The processing fee
- Standard debit rates still apply

**What's Included (No Extra Charge):**

- ✅ **$0/month account fee**
- ✅ **$0 setup fee**
- ✅ **Unlimited invoicing**
- ✅ **Recurring billing**
- ✅ **Virtual terminal**
- ✅ **Customer management**
- ✅ **Reporting & analytics**
- ✅ **Multiple payment methods** (credit, debit, ACH)
- ✅ **PCI compliance tools**

#### Payment Options

**Option 1: Standard Helcim Processing**

- Customer pays via credit card or ACH through Helcim
- You pay standard Helcim rates
- Funds settle to your Fidelity account
- Best for: General customers, recurring billing

**Option 2: Direct ACH to Fidelity (0% Fees)**

- Generate invoice with your Fidelity ACH details
- Customer pays directly via bank transfer
- **You pay $0 processing fees**
- Best for: Large transactions, B2B clients

**Option 3: Surcharging (0% Credit Card Processing)**

- Enable surcharging in Helcim
- Customer pays the processing fee
- **You pay 0% for credit cards**
- Best for: Retail, in-person, service businesses

#### Cost Comparison: Monthly Processing $10,000

| Method                              | Your Cost | Annual | Notes                |
| ----------------------------------- | --------- | ------ | -------------------- |
| **Traditional (Stripe 2.9% + 30¢)** | ~$320/mo  | $3,840 | Standard processor   |
| **Helcim (All Transactions)**       | ~$270/mo  | $3,240 | Save $600/year       |
| **Helcim + 50% Direct ACH**         | ~$135/mo  | $1,620 | Save $2,220/year     |
| **Helcim Surcharging**              | ~$50/mo   | $600   | Save $3,240/year     |
| **100% Direct ACH to Fidelity**     | **$0/mo** | **$0** | **Save $3,840/year** |

---

## 🎯 The Anti-Subscription Philosophy

### Why Monthly Fees Are a Trap

1. **Adds up fast:** $20/mo × 10 services = $200/mo = $2,400/year
2. **Vendor lock-in:** Hard to leave once you're dependent
3. **Price increases:** They always raise prices after you're hooked
4. **Zombie subscriptions:** How many do you forget to cancel?
5. **Cash flow drain:** Recurring charges hurt early-stage businesses

### Our Alternative

- **Pay once, own forever:** LLC + domain = yours for 10+ years
- **Free tiers that work:** GitHub, Cloudflare, Gmail aren't tricks
- **Pay-per-use:** Helcim (interchange-plus), OpenRouter (per request)
- **No vendor lock-in:** Everything is open-source or exportable
- **Cashflow friendly:** $150 upfront, then pay only for actual usage

### When To Actually Pay (We're Honest)

We're not dogmatic. Pay for value when it makes sense:

**Pay-Per-Transaction (Good):**

- **Helcim fees:** 2.55%-2.97% + fees (only when you make sales)
- **OpenAI API:** If you need GPT-4 (but try free models first)

**Monthly Subscriptions (Only If Necessary):**

- **GitHub Teams:** If you need advanced features ($4/user/month, but start free)
- **Cloudflare Pro:** If you outgrow free tier ($20/mo, but most don't need it)
- **Accounting software:** Only if Helcim's built-in invoicing isn't enough

**Never Pay Monthly For:**

- ❌ Website hosting (use Cloudflare Pages free tier)
- ❌ Email hosting (use Gmail forwarding free)
- ❌ Project management (use GitHub Projects free)
- ❌ Documentation hosting (use your monorepo)
- ❌ Basic payment processing (Helcim has $0 monthly fee)
- ❌ Business banking (Fidelity has $0 monthly fee)

---

## 🤖 The AI-Native Advantage

### Why This Matters

- **Perplexity Spaces:** Your AI knows your business (past conversations, docs)
- **OpenRouter:** Access 50+ AI models at cost (no markup)
- **CrewAI:** Free automated code review (catches bugs, security issues)
- **GitHub Copilot Alternatives:** Free AI coding assistants

### How We Use AI (Without Breaking the Bank)

1. **Perplexity (free tier):** Business decisions, research, documentation
2. **OpenRouter (~$0.01/mo):** Automation scripts, data processing
3. **CrewAI (free models):** Code review, security scans
4. **Gemini Flash (free):** Quick queries, testing
5. **Grok Beta (free):** Alternative to GPT-4

**Total AI cost: ~$0.02/month** vs. typical $20-50/month for ChatGPT Plus + other tools

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Personal computer (Mac, Windows, Linux)
- GitHub account (free)
- Credit/debit card (for one-time domain + LLC fees)
- 8-10 hours of time

### Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Clone this repository
git clone https://github.com/borealBytes/startup-blueprint.git
cd startup-blueprint

# 2. Read the getting started guide
cat docs/getting-started.md

# 3. Follow the 6-phase process
open docs/phase-1-legal.md
```

### What's Included

- 📚 Complete step-by-step guides (50+ pages)
- 📝 Templates (operating agreement, contracts, emails)
- 🤖 AI setup instructions (Perplexity, OpenRouter, CrewAI)
- 🚀 Deployment scripts (Cloudflare Pages, CI/CD)
- 💳 Payment setup guides (Helcim integration, invoicing)
- 🏦 Banking guides (Fidelity business stock account)
- 🔒 Security checklists (2FA, backups, recovery)

---

## 📊 Compare the Approaches

| Aspect                          | Traditional SaaS     | This Blueprint          |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------- |
| **Monthly Cost**                | $247/mo              | $0/mo                   |
| **Yearly Cost**                 | $2,964/yr            | ~$0.24/yr               |
| **Upfront Cost**                | ~$0-50               | $150-265                |
| **Vendor Lock-In**              | High                 | None                    |
| **Scalability**                 | Pay more as you grow | Stays free (or cheaper) |
| **AI Integration**              | $20-50/mo extra      | ~$0.02/mo               |
| **Email**                       | $6-12/mo             | Free                    |
| **Hosting**                     | $20-50/mo            | Free                    |
| **CI/CD**                       | $15-30/mo            | Free                    |
| **Banking**                     | $10-25/mo fees       | $0/mo (Fidelity)        |
| **Payment Processing**          | Stripe 2.9% + 30¢    | Helcim 2.55%-2.97% avg  |
| **Invoicing**                   | $25/mo extra         | Free (Helcim included)  |
| **Investment Options**          | Separate account     | Built-in (Fidelity)     |
| **Total 1st Year**              | ~$3,000              | ~$150                   |
| **Total 5 Years**               | ~$15,000             | ~$150                   |
| **Payment Fees (5yr @$10K/mo)** | ~$19,200             | ~$16,200                |
| **Grand Total (5yr)**           | **~$34,200**         | **~$16,350**            |
| **Savings**                     | -                    | **~$17,850**            |

_Payment fees assume: Stripe 2.9% + 30¢ vs Helcim 2.7% avg (mix of in-person, online, ACH)_

---

## 🎯 Who Is This For?

### Perfect For

- 🚀 Solo founders starting their first business
- 💻 Technical founders comfortable with Git
- 🤖 AI-first founders who want automation
- 💰 Bootstrapped founders watching every dollar
- 📚 Founders who want to understand their infrastructure
- 💸 Founders tired of $247/month in SaaS fees

### Not For

- ❌ Non-technical founders (requires some Git knowledge)
- ❌ Founders who need phone support for everything
- ❌ Businesses requiring SOC2 compliance (yet)
- ❌ Enterprises with complex requirements

---

## 📋 The 6-Phase Process (8-10 Hours Total)

### Phase 1: Legal Foundation (2-3 hours)

1. Choose business name (check state + trademark databases)
2. Register LLC with your state ($50-125)
3. Get EIN from IRS (free, online, 15 minutes)
4. File local licenses (if required)
5. Create operating agreement (template provided)

### Phase 2: Digital Infrastructure (1 hour)

1. Register domain via Cloudflare ($10-14/year × 10 years)
2. Set up email forwarding to Gmail (free)
3. Configure `founder@your-company.com` in Gmail
4. Set up email filters and labels
5. Enable 2FA on Cloudflare

### Phase 3: Repository & AI (45 minutes)

1. Create private GitHub repository (free)
2. Set up Perplexity AI Space with business context
3. Configure OpenRouter API key (free tier)
4. Install CrewAI for PR reviews (free models)
5. Enable GitHub Actions
6. Add team members (if applicable)

### Phase 4: Banking & Payment Processing (1.5 hours)

1. Open Fidelity business stock account (free)
   - Business checking with cash management
   - Optional: Set up investment preferences
2. Sign up for Helcim ($0/month, pay-per-transaction)
3. Connect Fidelity bank account to Helcim
4. Set up payment methods:
   - Credit/debit card processing
   - ACH acceptance
   - Surcharging preferences (optional)
5. Configure invoicing templates
6. Test a $1 transaction
7. Document ACH details for direct payments

### Phase 5: Deployment & Website (1.5 hours)

1. Deploy landing page to Cloudflare Pages (free)
2. Set up automatic preview deployments for PRs
3. Configure custom domain
4. Enable HTTPS (automatic via Cloudflare)
5. Set security headers
6. Test deployment pipeline

### Phase 6: Operations Manual (2 hours)

1. Document your processes in the monorepo
2. Create onboarding checklist for future team
3. Set up backup and recovery procedures
4. Enable 2FA on all critical accounts (GitHub, Cloudflare, Helcim, Fidelity)
5. Create runbook for common tasks
6. Set up incident response process

**Total: 8-10 hours, then you're live. $150-265 one-time cost. $0/month recurring.**

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Found a way to eliminate more monthly fees? Have a better free alternative? **We want to know!**

**How to contribute:**

1. Fork this repository
2. Create a branch for your improvement
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request with a clear description
5. We'll review and merge if it helps eliminate subscriptions or improves the blueprint

**What we're looking for:**

- Better free alternatives to recommended tools
- Ways to reduce costs further
- Improved documentation and guides
- Bug fixes and corrections
- Real-world success stories

---

## 📄 License

MIT License - Use this however you want. Build your business. Kill monthly fees.

---

## 💬 Questions?

**GitHub Issues:** [Report bugs or ask questions](https://github.com/borealBytes/startup-blueprint/issues)

We respond to all issues and are happy to help you get started!

---

**Made with ❤️ by founders who are tired of monthly fees.**

**Start your business. Pay $150 once. Never pay monthly fees again.**  
_(Except payment processing fees when you actually make sales - but even those are significantly cheaper with Helcim's transparent interchange-plus pricing)_

Commit message:

docs: highlight agentic workflow in README and site

README.md, after:

# 🚀 Startup Blueprint

## Kill Monthly Fees. Start Your Business for $150

**Zero subscriptions. Zero recurring charges. Just a defined process that works.**

Everyone wants you to pay a monthly fee—hosting providers, email services, project management tools, AI platforms. This blueprint shows you how to build a professional, AI-native business with **$0/month recurring costs**.

> **🎯 For:** Founders who are tired of SaaS fatigue and want to own their infrastructure

---

## 💰 The Complete Cost Breakdown

### One-Time Costs (Total: $150-265)

| Item                  | Cost      | Why?                                             |
| --------------------- | --------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| **LLC Registration**  | $50-125   | Government fee (required by law)                 |
| **Domain (10 years)** | ~$100-140 | Avoid $500 recovery fees if you forget to renew  |
| **Everything Else**   | $0        | GitHub, Cloudflare, Gmail, Perplexity (all free) |

### Ongoing Costs: ~$0.02/month

- **AI Usage (optional):** OpenRouter API (~$0.01-0.02/month for automation)
- **CrewAI Reviews:** <$0.01 per PR with free models
- **Hosting:** $0 (Cloudflare Pages free tier)
- **Email:** $0 (Gmail forwarding)
- **Repository:** $0 (GitHub private repos free)
- **CI/CD:** $0 (GitHub Actions free tier)
- **DNS:** $0 (Cloudflare DNS free)
- **Banking:** $0/month (Fidelity business stock account)
- **Payment Processing:** Pay-per-transaction only (Helcim interchange-plus)

**Compare this to typical SaaS costs: $247/month = $2,964/year** 💸

---

## 🚫 What We're Eliminating

### Traditional SaaS Stack (What We DON'T Pay)

- ❌ $29/mo website hosting (we use Cloudflare Pages)
- ❌ $49/mo email service (we use Gmail forwarding)
- ❌ $99/mo project management (we use GitHub Projects)
- ❌ $20/mo AI tools (we use free tiers + pay-per-use)
- ❌ $15/mo analytics (we use Cloudflare Analytics)
- ❌ $10/mo domain email (we use Gmail forwarding)
- ❌ $25/mo accounting/invoicing (we use Helcim included features)

**Total Eliminated: $247/month = $2,964/year**

---

## ✅ What You Get (Without Subscriptions)

### 1. Legal Foundation

- Step-by-step LLC registration guide
- EIN application (free, 15 minutes online)
- Business license requirements by state
- Operating agreement templates
- Compliance checklists

### 2. Digital Infrastructure (All Free)

- **Domain:** Cloudflare Registrar (cost-only pricing, no markup)
- **Email:** Professional `founder@your-company.com` via Gmail
- **Hosting:** Cloudflare Pages (unlimited bandwidth)
- **CDN:** Cloudflare (global edge network)
- **DNS:** Cloudflare (free, fast, secure)

### 3. AI-Native From Day One

- **Perplexity AI Spaces:** Your AI assistant knows your business context
- **OpenRouter:** Sub-penny AI inference (~$0.01-0.02/month)
- **CrewAI:** Free automated code review on every PR
- **GitHub Copilot:** Optional (but we show alternatives)

### 4. Monorepo Structure

Your entire business in one Git repository:

```
your-company/
├── docs/           # Business docs, policies, contracts
├── website/        # Your public site (auto-deploys)
├── .crewai/        # AI review agents (free)
├── .perplexity/    # AI workspace instructions
└── operations/     # Playbooks, checklists, SOPs
```

**Benefits:**

- ✅ Everything version controlled (never lose anything)
- ✅ Full-text search across all business documents
- ✅ Automatic backups (GitHub handles it)
- ✅ Collaboration via PRs (async, auditable)
- ✅ Private by default (free with GitHub)

### 5. Automated Deployment

- **GitHub Actions CI/CD:** Free tier is generous
- **Preview Deployments:** Every PR gets a live URL
- **Production Deploys:** Merge to main = automatic deploy
- **Zero Downtime:** Cloudflare handles failover

### 6. Business Banking That Invests

**We recommend [Fidelity Business Stock Account](https://www.fidelity.com/small-business/overview)**

#### Why Fidelity?

**Banking + Investment Platform:**

- **$0/month fees:** No account maintenance charges
- **FDIC-insured cash management:** Operating capital earns interest
- **Investment options:** Stocks, ETFs, crypto, precious metals
- **All-in-one:** Banking and investing in one platform
- **Institutional tools:** Real-time trading, research, portfolio analysis
- **Tax integration:** Simplified year-end accounting

**Investment Options:**

1. **Cash Management:** FDIC-insured sweep accounts with competitive rates
2. **Stocks & ETFs:** Invest profits (index funds, sector ETFs, individual stocks)
3. **Crypto:** Bitcoin, Ethereum, and more (regulated custody)
4. **Precious Metals:** Gold, silver, platinum, palladium (inflation hedge)

**Your business funds can earn returns while staying liquid for operations.**

### 7. Payment Processing & Invoicing

**We recommend [Helcim](https://www.helcim.com/)** - transparent interchange-plus pricing with **$0/month fees**

#### Current Helcim Pricing (2026)

**In-Person Payments** 📱

- **Average:** 2.55% + 8¢ per transaction
- **PIN Debit:** As low as 2.16% + 8¢
- Card-present, chip, contactless

**Online/Keyed Payments** 💻

- **Average:** 2.97% + 25¢ per transaction
- Card-not-present, e-commerce, phone orders

**ACH/Bank Transfers** 🏦

- **Rate:** 0.5% + 25¢ per transaction
- **Capped at $6** (for transactions <$25,000)
- **Direct to Fidelity:** No fee when using cash invoices

**Surcharging Option** ✨

- **You pay:** 0% for credit cards
- **Customer pays:** The processing fee
- Standard debit rates still apply

**What's Included (No Extra Charge):**

- ✅ **$0/month account fee**
- ✅ **$0 setup fee**
- ✅ **Unlimited invoicing**
- ✅ **Recurring billing**
- ✅ **Virtual terminal**
- ✅ **Customer management**
- ✅ **Reporting & analytics**
- ✅ **Multiple payment methods** (credit, debit, ACH)
- ✅ **PCI compliance tools**

#### Payment Options

**Option 1: Standard Helcim Processing**

- Customer pays via credit card or ACH through Helcim
- You pay standard Helcim rates
- Funds settle to your Fidelity account
- Best for: General customers, recurring billing

**Option 2: Direct ACH to Fidelity (0% Fees)**

- Generate invoice with your Fidelity ACH details
- Customer pays directly via bank transfer
- **You pay $0 processing fees**
- Best for: Large transactions, B2B clients

**Option 3: Surcharging (0% Credit Card Processing)**

- Enable surcharging in Helcim
- Customer pays the processing fee
- **You pay 0% for credit cards**
- Best for: Retail, in-person, service businesses

#### Cost Comparison: Monthly Processing $10,000

| Method                              | Your Cost | Annual | Notes                |
| ----------------------------------- | --------- | ------ | -------------------- |
| **Traditional (Stripe 2.9% + 30¢)** | ~$320/mo  | $3,840 | Standard processor   |
| **Helcim (All Transactions)**       | ~$270/mo  | $3,240 | Save $600/year       |
| **Helcim + 50% Direct ACH**         | ~$135/mo  | $1,620 | Save $2,220/year     |
| **Helcim Surcharging**              | ~$50/mo   | $600   | Save $3,240/year     |
| **100% Direct ACH to Fidelity**     | **$0/mo** | **$0** | **Save $3,840/year** |

---

## 🎯 The Anti-Subscription Philosophy

### Why Monthly Fees Are a Trap

1. **Adds up fast:** $20/mo × 10 services = $200/mo = $2,400/year
2. **Vendor lock-in:** Hard to leave once you're dependent
3. **Price increases:** They always raise prices after you're hooked
4. **Zombie subscriptions:** How many do you forget to cancel?
5. **Cash flow drain:** Recurring charges hurt early-stage businesses

### Our Alternative

- **Pay once, own forever:** LLC + domain = yours for 10+ years
- **Free tiers that work:** GitHub, Cloudflare, Gmail aren't tricks
- **Pay-per-use:** Helcim (interchange-plus), OpenRouter (per request)
- **No vendor lock-in:** Everything is open-source or exportable
- **Cashflow friendly:** $150 upfront, then pay only for actual usage

### When To Actually Pay (We're Honest)

We're not dogmatic. Pay for value when it makes sense:

**Pay-Per-Transaction (Good):**

- **Helcim fees:** 2.55%-2.97% + fees (only when you make sales)
- **OpenAI API:** If you need GPT-4 (but try free models first)

**Monthly Subscriptions (Only If Necessary):**

- **GitHub Teams:** If you need advanced features ($4/user/month, but start free)
- **Cloudflare Pro:** If you outgrow free tier ($20/mo, but most don't need it)
- **Accounting software:** Only if Helcim's built-in invoicing isn't enough

**Never Pay Monthly For:**

- ❌ Website hosting (use Cloudflare Pages free tier)
- ❌ Email hosting (use Gmail forwarding free)
- ❌ Project management (use GitHub Projects free)
- ❌ Documentation hosting (use your monorepo)
- ❌ Basic payment processing (Helcim has $0 monthly fee)
- ❌ Business banking (Fidelity has $0 monthly fee)

---

## 🤖 The AI-Native Advantage

### Why This Matters

- **Perplexity Spaces:** Your AI knows your business (past conversations, docs)
- **OpenRouter:** Access 50+ AI models at cost (no markup)
- **CrewAI:** Free automated code review (catches bugs, security issues)
- **GitHub Copilot Alternatives:** Free AI coding assistants

### How We Use AI (Without Breaking the Bank)

1. **Perplexity (free tier):** Business decisions, research, documentation
2. **OpenRouter (~$0.01/mo):** Automation scripts, data processing
3. **CrewAI (free models):** Code review, security scans
4. **Gemini Flash (free):** Quick queries, testing
5. **Grok Beta (free):** Alternative to GPT-4

**Total AI cost: ~$0.02/month** vs. typical $20-50/month for ChatGPT Plus + other tools

---

## 🧠 Agentic Workflow Framework

We ship a ready-to-use agentic coding framework that works across **Perplexity**, **OpenCode**, and **Claude Code**. It keeps AI output consistent, reviewable, and safe—with clear human checkpoints.

**What you get:**

- **Canonical agent docs:** `docs/agentic/instructions.md` plus a full bundle of standards and procedures.
- **Entry points:** `OPENCODE.md` (primary) and `CLAUDE.md` (compatibility).
- **Repeatable workflow:** 14-step process with design + code review checkpoints.
- **Guardrails:** Autonomy boundaries, escalation rules, and error recovery playbooks.
- **Operational clarity:** Context budget and file organization guides for long threads.

**Use it like this:**

1. Start with `OPENCODE.md` (or `CLAUDE.md`).
2. Follow `docs/agentic/instructions.md` for the reading order.
3. For Perplexity Spaces, paste `docs/agentic/instructions.md` and upload the rest of `docs/agentic/`.

This gives you **clean, repeatable AI collaboration** with a single source of truth for how agents should work in the repo.

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Personal computer (Mac, Windows, Linux)
- GitHub account (free)
- Credit/debit card (for one-time domain + LLC fees)
- 8-10 hours of time

### Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Clone this repository
git clone https://github.com/borealBytes/startup-blueprint.git
cd startup-blueprint

# 2. Read the getting started guide
cat docs/getting-started.md

# 3. Follow the 6-phase process
open docs/phase-1-legal.md
```

### What's Included

- 📚 Complete step-by-step guides (50+ pages)
- 📝 Templates (operating agreement, contracts, emails)
- 🤖 AI setup instructions (Perplexity, OpenRouter, CrewAI)
- 🚀 Deployment scripts (Cloudflare Pages, CI/CD)
- 💳 Payment setup guides (Helcim integration, invoicing)
- 🏦 Banking guides (Fidelity business stock account)
- 🔒 Security checklists (2FA, backups, recovery)

---

## 📊 Compare the Approaches

| Aspect                          | Traditional SaaS     | This Blueprint          |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------- |
| **Monthly Cost**                | $247/mo              | $0/mo                   |
| **Yearly Cost**                 | $2,964/yr            | ~$0.24/yr               |
| **Upfront Cost**                | ~$0-50               | $150-265                |
| **Vendor Lock-In**              | High                 | None                    |
| **Scalability**                 | Pay more as you grow | Stays free (or cheaper) |
| **AI Integration**              | $20-50/mo extra      | ~$0.02/mo               |
| **Email**                       | $6-12/mo             | Free                    |
| **Hosting**                     | $20-50/mo            | Free                    |
| **CI/CD**                       | $15-30/mo            | Free                    |
| **Banking**                     | $10-25/mo fees       | $0/mo (Fidelity)        |
| **Payment Processing**          | Stripe 2.9% + 30¢    | Helcim 2.55%-2.97% avg  |
| **Invoicing**                   | $25/mo extra         | Free (Helcim included)  |
| **Investment Options**          | Separate account     | Built-in (Fidelity)     |
| **Total 1st Year**              | ~$3,000              | ~$150                   |
| **Total 5 Years**               | ~$15,000             | ~$150                   |
| **Payment Fees (5yr @$10K/mo)** | ~$19,200             | ~$16,200                |
| **Grand Total (5yr)**           | **~$34,200**         | **~$16,350**            |
| **Savings**                     | -                    | **~$17,850**            |

_Payment fees assume: Stripe 2.9% + 30¢ vs Helcim 2.7% avg (mix of in-person, online, ACH)_

---

## 🎯 Who Is This For?

### Perfect For

- 🚀 Solo founders starting their first business
- 💻 Technical founders comfortable with Git
- 🤖 AI-first founders who want automation
- 💰 Bootstrapped founders watching every dollar
- 📚 Founders who want to understand their infrastructure
- 💸 Founders tired of $247/month in SaaS fees

### Not For

- ❌ Non-technical founders (requires some Git knowledge)
- ❌ Founders who need phone support for everything
- ❌ Businesses requiring SOC2 compliance (yet)
- ❌ Enterprises with complex requirements

---

## 📋 The 6-Phase Process (8-10 Hours Total)

### Phase 1: Legal Foundation (2-3 hours)

1. Choose business name (check state + trademark databases)
2. Register LLC with your state ($50-125)
3. Get EIN from IRS (free, online, 15 minutes)
4. File local licenses (if required)
5. Create operating agreement (template provided)

### Phase 2: Digital Infrastructure (1 hour)

1. Register domain via Cloudflare ($10-14/year × 10 years)
2. Set up email forwarding to Gmail (free)
3. Configure `founder@your-company.com` in Gmail
4. Set up email filters and labels
5. Enable 2FA on Cloudflare

### Phase 3: Repository & AI (45 minutes)

1. Create private GitHub repository (free)
2. Set up Perplexity AI Space with business context
3. Configure OpenRouter API key (free tier)
4. Install CrewAI for PR reviews (free models)
5. Enable GitHub Actions
6. Add team members (if applicable)

### Phase 4: Banking & Payment Processing (1.5 hours)

1. Open Fidelity business stock account (free)
   - Business checking with cash management
   - Optional: Set up investment preferences
2. Sign up for Helcim ($0/month, pay-per-transaction)
3. Connect Fidelity bank account to Helcim
4. Set up payment methods:
   - Credit/debit card processing
   - ACH acceptance
   - Surcharging preferences (optional)
5. Configure invoicing templates
6. Test a $1 transaction
7. Document ACH details for direct payments

### Phase 5: Deployment & Website (1.5 hours)

1. Deploy landing page to Cloudflare Pages (free)
2. Set up automatic preview deployments for PRs
3. Configure custom domain
4. Enable HTTPS (automatic via Cloudflare)
5. Set security headers
6. Test deployment pipeline

### Phase 6: Operations Manual (2 hours)

1. Document your processes in the monorepo
2. Create onboarding checklist for future team
3. Set up backup and recovery procedures
4. Enable 2FA on all critical accounts (GitHub, Cloudflare, Helcim, Fidelity)
5. Create runbook for common tasks
6. Set up incident response process

**Total: 8-10 hours, then you're live. $150-265 one-time cost. $0/month recurring.**

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Found a way to eliminate more monthly fees? Have a better free alternative? **We want to know!**

**How to contribute:**

1. Fork this repository
2. Create a branch for your improvement
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request with a clear description
5. We'll review and merge if it helps eliminate subscriptions or improves the blueprint

**What we're looking for:**

- Better free alternatives to recommended tools
- Ways to reduce costs further
- Improved documentation and guides
- Bug fixes and corrections
- Real-world success stories

---

## 📄 License

MIT License - Use this however you want. Build your business. Kill monthly fees.

---

## 💬 Questions?

**GitHub Issues:** [Report bugs or ask questions](https://github.com/borealBytes/startup-blueprint/issues)

We respond to all issues and are happy to help you get started!

---

**Made with ❤️ by founders who are tired of monthly fees.**

**Start your business. Pay $150 once. Never pay monthly fees again.**  
_(Except payment processing fees when you actually make sales - but even those are significantly cheaper with Helcim's transparent interchange-plus pricing)_
